---
title: The web side of things
date: 2024-10-13
description: A cursory look into some of the technical aspects of this website and related projects.

image: /img/news/the-web-side-of-things.png
alt: Redot in the news
ogImage: /img/news/the-web-side-of-things.png
tags: ["community"]
type: "post"
author: "Arjan"
authorImage: /img/authors/arjan.png
published: true
---

So, where to start. My name is Arjan. I've been a software developer for 25 years, however never in 
gaming. I decided to join this project because I was sick and tired of seeing companies talking down
to their customers. This is my chance to help do something about it.

I started on the docs project, writing a converter to 'rebrand' all the Godot mentions and links.
This is not as straightforward as it sounds, as there are many nuanced differences between different
usages.

A couple of known issues that are on our list are: different versions are currently hosted on different
subdomains, some links don't work properly, screenshots need replacing, and much, much more..

On a more fundamental level, we want to move away from ReStructured text and convert all of it to
markdown. We want to move away from Sphinx. We want a better way to document cpp classes. These are lofty
goals but will also take a serious time investment.

So in conclusion: this project is not finished by any means, but it's good enough to launch so that's
what we did.

I also looked into hosting. After weighing pros and cons we landed on [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com)
for its generous free service in terms of bandwidth.

After that I was asked to also facilitate the hosting of the main website, which was under development
while I was working on the docs project. There were many competing designs among contributors so picking
one was guaranteed to generate disappointment. In the end, a practical decision was made.

I've been a web developer for most of my professional career so I know that what we're launching today 
is not 100% up to professional standards. There is much room for improvement and more work to be done. But,
it does the job it's supposed to: provide information and links to resources. And we now have a website 
whereas before we didn't, and that's what's most important.

Mak Gam

Arjan, a.k.a [@Craptain](https://x.com/craptain)